In the last lecture, we talked about the relationship
between the velocity of a robot's joints and
the velocity of the robot end-effector, the
rate of change of the pose of the robot end-effector.
And, we talked previously about these two
robotic problems, the forward kinematic problem
and the inverse kinematic problem and then
we introduced this velocity transform problem.
In our last lecture, we did everything in
two-dimensional space. This we have seen a
number of times through this course. Things
are pretty easy in two dimensions. They get
much more complex in three dimensions. In
this lecture, we are going to do it in three
dimensions.
So now, we are going to define what does it
mean, this psi dot, in terms of three-dimensional
pose changing with time. So, first, we’re
going to describe what mathematical object this
psi dot is and then we’re going to work on
the relationship between joint angle rates
and pose rate.
Now, as we do this, there are some advanced
concepts and, if you are not particularly
strong at maths, you don’t have background
in differential calculus, your not too comfortable
with linear algebra and we've done a bit of
linear algebra already. We used matrices and
vectors, but this is going to be perhaps matrix
and vector used at a more advanced level.
If you are not too comfortable with these
concepts, you might struggle with this particular
lecture. So, your options are just to try
and skim through the lecture, observe the
gist of what I’m trying to say even if you
don’t get all of the details. Maybe look
at some, some additional textbooks. Do some
more reading to get the, the prerequisites
that you are going need to understand that.
So, just a little bit of a, of a warning before
we get in to the details of it.